Dear Dr. Migliorini,

We have received the reports from our advisors on your manuscript, "On the Use of Generic Types for Smart Contracts", which you submitted to Cluster Computing.

Based on the advice received, your manuscript could be accepted for publication should you be prepared to incorporate minor revisions.

When preparing your revised manuscript, you are asked to carefully consider the reviewer comments which are attached, and submit a list of responses to the comments.

Your list of responses should be uploaded as a file in addition to your revised manuscript.

Additionally, please refrain from using references that are not essential to the subject of your work. Also avoid superfluous citations from Cluster Computing's publications. Only those papers that materially support or extend discussions of your work should be cited.

Please make sure to submit your editable source files (i. e. Word, TeX).

In order to submit your revised manuscript electronically, please access the Editorial Manager site.

Your username is: ********

If you forgot your password, you can click the 'Send Login Details' link on the EM Login page at https://www.editorialmanager.com/clus/

Click "Author Login" to submit your revision.

We look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.

Sincerely yours,

Yaser Jararweh
Lead Guest Editor
Cluster Computing

COMMENTS FOR THE AUTHOR:
Reviewer #1: Thank you for your submission. I highly advice you to explain a little bit more about the attack surfaces.


Reviewer #3: This manuscript present a real security issue that the authors found while using generics for writing smart contracts that implement shared entities for the Hotmoka blockchain, and they proposed a possible solution based on an appropriate code rewriting.

They are many major comments in here. I bring as much as I can.

1- The abstract section should be rewritten in order to clearly state the manuscript main focus
2- The manuscript should be more organized to make it more interesting for the readers.
3- The introduction should be rewritten to clarify its message. Drawbacks of former proposals should be clearly indicated and innovations and new ideas highlighted.
4- Problem statement, objective & contribution are not clear.
5- If no one has proposed before a solution like the proposed solution, this claim should be highlighted much more. Else, it should be indicated who has done this, and it should be indicated what the innovations of the current paper are.
6- For explaining the related work, the authors need to simply mentions their strategy in generic types or smart contracts, mention the advantages and disadvantages. I did not get the general view of the methods or solutions based the explanation that the authors have provided in this part.
7- In my view, the literature survey of introduction is quite weak, unfocused and insufficient. The literature review needs to have a flow that leads to the objectives. What is the essential problem of this work? The authors should really explain the drawback of approaches in the related works especially instead of simply stating what they have done. Besides, please explain the main contribution related to previous approaches or solutions.
8- Section "Related Work" make sure you (i.e., the authors) discuss and cite the most relevant works.
9- Avoid using single person pronouns like "we" throughout the manuscript.
10- Some terms are just used without explaining the meaning. It is not enough to bring a concept and just bring a reference. The authors need to explain a little bit about it.


Reviewer #4: The manuscript is well written.  I accept the paper in its current form.
